19500_nwp20/19501_jnos_mesh.md, before:

# JNOS on AREDN MESH

## Using JNOS
+ See 19502...

## Installing JNOS on raspberry PI
+ \# make f directory to hold everything
+ mkdir jnos
+ cd jnos
+ wget HOST/jnos2pi/setup
+ \# fetch the executable and other files.  About 4 MB total
+ sh setup
+ mv jnos_pi jnos
+ chmod +x jnos jnosinstaller_pi
+ rm jnos2pi
+ ./jnosinstaller_pi  # run the installer
   + install
   + run   # work dir
   + callsign 
   + no   # on axip yet
   + no   # no axudp yet
   + no   # no tnc yet
   \# password for callsign entered above in ftpusers file
+ done with install
+ edit (nano or vi) *startnos 
   + change 2nd and 3rd lines should be rm -f spool/mqueue and spool/mail, not DIR/spool...
   + change timezone.  For example, I need:  TZ=PST8PDT
   + remove redirections on last line:  shold be exec ./jnos -a 4 -R 2 
+ chmod +x startnos
+ sudo ./startnos # run as root user
*
## Installing JNOS on virtual x86 rPI

## Additional JNOS info
(cat links by jnos)
+ [JNOS2 Home](http://www.langelaar.net/jnos2)
+ [rpi 4 and Linux](http://www.trinityos.com/HAM/CentosDigitalModes/RPi/rpi4-setup.html)

## Install AREDN MESH
+ [AREDN supported devices](https://www.arednmesh.org/content/supported-platform-matrix)

Commit message:

adding aredn mesh ip address handling

19500_nwp20/19501_jnos_mesh.md, after:

# JNOS on AREDN MESH

## Using JNOS
+ See 19502...

## Installing JNOS on raspberry PI
+ \# make f directory to hold everything
+ mkdir jnos
+ cd jnos
+ wget HOST/jnos2pi/setup
+ \# fetch the executable and other files.  About 4 MB total
+ sh setup
+ mv jnos_pi jnos
+ chmod +x jnos jnosinstaller_pi
+ rm jnos2pi  # this is an artifact of the fetch command.  Soon to be resolved.
+ Find the IP address assigned by AREDN mesh.  Run the command *ipconfig eth0*.  Look for inet line
   + eth0: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST>  mtu 1500
   + inet 10.61.155.164  netmask 255.255.255.248  broadcast 10.61.155.167
+ edit autoexec.template  # assigning IP addresses for the MESH is tricky.  Soon it will be automated but until then it needs to be done manually.
    + Find the IP ADDRESS 192.168.2.2 line.  Change the IP address to your JNOS address.  *IP ADDRESS 10.61.155.164
    + Chane the mask line from 255.255.255.0 to 255.255.255.248
    + Change the shell ip attachline for the new address
       + was: .shell ifconfig tun0 192.168.2.2 pointopoint 192.168.2.1 mtu 1500 up
       + now: .shell ifconfig tun0 10.61.155.64 pointopoint 10.61.155.63 mtu 1500 up
+ ./jnosinstaller_pi  # run the installer
   + install
   + run   # work dir
   + callsign 
   + no   # on axip yet
   + no   # no axudp yet
   + no   # no tnc yet
   \# password for callsign entered above in ftpusers file
+ done with install
+ edit (nano or vi) *startnos 
   + change 2nd and 3rd lines should be rm -f spool/mqueue and spool/mail, not DIR/spool...
   + change timezone.  For example, I need:  TZ=PST8PDT
   + remove redirections on last line:  shold be exec ./jnos -a 4 -R 2 
+ chmod +x startnos
+ sudo ./startnos # run as root user
*
## Installing JNOS on virtual x86 rPI

## Additional JNOS info
(cat links by jnos)
+ [JNOS2 Home](http://www.langelaar.net/jnos2)
+ [rpi 4 and Linux](http://www.trinityos.com/HAM/CentosDigitalModes/RPi/rpi4-setup.html)

## Install AREDN MESH
+ [AREDN supported devices](https://www.arednmesh.org/content/supported-platform-matrix)
