19201_Ham_misc/social_media_comments.md, before:

# NWP Social Media Posts

## APRS Voice Alert

http://www.aprs.org/VoiceAlert3.html

190804 - Travis T - I have a yaesu ftm400 and it has voice alert on the aprs. I have turned it on but does anyone know how it works.

Bill V - Voice Alert is calling and listening for a live voice contact. Great to meet new folk when you're at the radio.

Justin Cherington - I don’t think I’ve ever heard the alert.

Bill V Justin - it's not a special sound or notification - it's just a standard APRS AX25 packet that is heard on the radio because it has the 100 Hz tone. When you hear the packets - call for the station who's now in range and move off to another simplex frequency for a chat - perhaps 146.55 or 146.58.

R. Abbott - If you don't turn on Voice Alert, your radio just sends a packet on the frequency. And it will hear packets that come back the radio will unmute the speaker and you will hear a squawk. This is the basic setup. Most people find that annoying after a couple minutes so the turn the volume down. What Voice Alert does, is put a 100Hz tone on both send and receive. This way, your radio will still hear and process standard messages, but won't meet the tone requirements to unmute the speaker. So you won't hear a squawk. And you don't have to turn down the volume. Now, another mobile user comes into your simplex range who also has Voice Alert turned on. That user is transmitting a 100Hz tone that your radio hears. It meets the tone requirements to unmute your speaker and you hear the squawk. This alerts you that there is another mobile user in the area also using APRS. You can contact them back directly on the APRS freq, initiate contact and then QSY to a clear freq to have a ragchew.

## Ed Fong J-Pole Antenna
190724 Ed's three QST articles are interesting and educational. Links to the PDF's are at the bottom of his page here - https://edsantennas.weebly.com/about.html #antenna

190726 J-Pole discussion BV A single band JPole is a 1/4 wave matching section feeding a 1/2 wave radiator.

> Ryan McOmber So, they have a 1/2 wave of signal?

> Ryan McOmber Wish I could find a graph that compares a typical J Pole vs a 5/8 ground plane. The J Pole will only have about 2.2 db gain vs about 6 db gain with the 5/8 ground plane. From what I've read the 5/8 wave ground plane has a more focused radiation pattern that's flatter and projects towards the horizon more over a 1/4 or even a 1/2 wave design.

> Bill Vodall Ryan - that's essentially what I've always heard - 5/8 > 1/2 > 1/4 - each squishing the signal more towards the horizon with the 5/8 having the ultimate squish. Beyond 5/8 signal breaks into multiple lobes.
5/8 has 1 or 2 db over 1/2 - disadvantage being the 5/8 needs a good ground and a matching coil. That's the advantage of the J-Pole (1/2 wave) no ground needed, area of maximum radiation-current up high physically and a good matching section (the 1/4 wave J)


## Speed of Light and Length of Antennas

In https://www.kb6nu.com/468-ham-radios-magic-number - he says the 468 has a mysterious past.   Not so mysterious as it's assuming a 95% velocity factor of 492.

Magical 492 is derived from the speed of light - 299.8 million meters per second
...to be continued

## Band Edges and LSB on 10 meters

I'm calling CQ on 28.300 MHz with LSB...

BV 190724 - For all the comments, does everybody now understand why LSB on 28.300 is technically illegal in the US? The transmission is still in the 10 meter Ham band but outside of the 10 M Voice segment. LSB is not 'wrong' on 10 meters but it is atypical and may add confusion.

A similar frequency example is APRS packet on the 30 meter band. One valid listing is to say 10.151 MHz dial frequency with LSB - even though that's outside the edge of the Ham band at 10.150 MHz. When a 1.7 KHz tone carrier is modulated on a 10.151 LSB - the result is a carrier on 10.149.3 - which is inside the Ham band and legal.

More reading for somebody that's caught up on FB posts and Netflix shows - http://wa8lmf.net/aprs/SSB_Frequencies.htm

## Kenwood TH-D74 and ICOM DStar

BV 190709 - Was a firmware update ever released that added DStar slow-slow (900 bps) data to the DStar fast-slow (4800 bps) data initially provisioned in the D74? The slow-slow data is standard with most of the Icom DStar gear.

   Adrian F. - No, and what was more dissapointing was that an editable gps sentence field waznt added as requested to Kenwood by AE5PL to allow dprs calculator gps beaconing with any d-star gateway that supported the same in Icom gear.

## 146.52 Calling Frequency

BV 190709: The problem is there may be folks monitoring on 52 that don't want to list to extended discussions.  I can see them just turning off their radio to deal with the extraneous distracting noise.   
Perhaps establishing a Tone convention, like APRS Voice Alert, would allow priority calls to be made while keeping the radio quiet for standard traffic.

## ARRL

FB 190707: If we members want to communicate - we can just post on one of the well organized group of Facebook pages. :) (It's not like there are 2 billion other folk finding it useful.)

FB 190707: New or upgraded licences should get a free 1 year digital membership. High school and younger students should get a greatly reduced membership rate. Us seniors too. (First time I've been able to say that.)
Hopefully the goal I saw last year of a mere 5% membership decrease has been revised. That's inexcusable in this era of techy awesomeness.

Commit message:

More on the metric speed of light

19201_Ham_misc/social_media_comments.md, after:

# NWP Social Media Posts

## APRS Voice Alert

http://www.aprs.org/VoiceAlert3.html

190804 - Travis T - I have a yaesu ftm400 and it has voice alert on the aprs. I have turned it on but does anyone know how it works.

Bill V - Voice Alert is calling and listening for a live voice contact. Great to meet new folk when you're at the radio.

Justin Cherington - I don’t think I’ve ever heard the alert.

Bill V Justin - it's not a special sound or notification - it's just a standard APRS AX25 packet that is heard on the radio because it has the 100 Hz tone. When you hear the packets - call for the station who's now in range and move off to another simplex frequency for a chat - perhaps 146.55 or 146.58.

R. Abbott - If you don't turn on Voice Alert, your radio just sends a packet on the frequency. And it will hear packets that come back the radio will unmute the speaker and you will hear a squawk. This is the basic setup. Most people find that annoying after a couple minutes so the turn the volume down. What Voice Alert does, is put a 100Hz tone on both send and receive. This way, your radio will still hear and process standard messages, but won't meet the tone requirements to unmute the speaker. So you won't hear a squawk. And you don't have to turn down the volume. Now, another mobile user comes into your simplex range who also has Voice Alert turned on. That user is transmitting a 100Hz tone that your radio hears. It meets the tone requirements to unmute your speaker and you hear the squawk. This alerts you that there is another mobile user in the area also using APRS. You can contact them back directly on the APRS freq, initiate contact and then QSY to a clear freq to have a ragchew.

## Ed Fong J-Pole Antenna
190724 Ed's three QST articles are interesting and educational. Links to the PDF's are at the bottom of his page here - https://edsantennas.weebly.com/about.html #antenna

190726 J-Pole discussion BV A single band JPole is a 1/4 wave matching section feeding a 1/2 wave radiator.

> Ryan McOmber So, they have a 1/2 wave of signal?

> Ryan McOmber Wish I could find a graph that compares a typical J Pole vs a 5/8 ground plane. The J Pole will only have about 2.2 db gain vs about 6 db gain with the 5/8 ground plane. From what I've read the 5/8 wave ground plane has a more focused radiation pattern that's flatter and projects towards the horizon more over a 1/4 or even a 1/2 wave design.

> Bill Vodall Ryan - that's essentially what I've always heard - 5/8 > 1/2 > 1/4 - each squishing the signal more towards the horizon with the 5/8 having the ultimate squish. Beyond 5/8 signal breaks into multiple lobes.
5/8 has 1 or 2 db over 1/2 - disadvantage being the 5/8 needs a good ground and a matching coil. That's the advantage of the J-Pole (1/2 wave) no ground needed, area of maximum radiation-current up high physically and a good matching section (the 1/4 wave J)


## Speed of Light and Length of Antennas

In https://www.kb6nu.com/468-ham-radios-magic-number - he says the 468 has a mysterious past.   Not so mysterious as it's assuming a 95% velocity factor of 492.

Magical 492 is derived from the speed of light - 299.8 million meters per second

Another post re meters and frequencies:

Bill V - 300 is the speed of light in metric. 300 million meters per second.

The 10 meter band is close to 30 Megahertz. The 30 meter band is close to 10 Megahertz. The 6 meter band is close to 50 Megahertz. Thus 'meters' times 'Megahertz' is 300...


## Band Edges and LSB on 10 meters

I'm calling CQ on 28.300 MHz with LSB...

BV 190724 - For all the comments, does everybody now understand why LSB on 28.300 is technically illegal in the US? The transmission is still in the 10 meter Ham band but outside of the 10 M Voice segment. LSB is not 'wrong' on 10 meters but it is atypical and may add confusion.

A similar frequency example is APRS packet on the 30 meter band. One valid listing is to say 10.151 MHz dial frequency with LSB - even though that's outside the edge of the Ham band at 10.150 MHz. When a 1.7 KHz tone carrier is modulated on a 10.151 LSB - the result is a carrier on 10.149.3 - which is inside the Ham band and legal.

More reading for somebody that's caught up on FB posts and Netflix shows - http://wa8lmf.net/aprs/SSB_Frequencies.htm

## Kenwood TH-D74 and ICOM DStar

BV 190709 - Was a firmware update ever released that added DStar slow-slow (900 bps) data to the DStar fast-slow (4800 bps) data initially provisioned in the D74? The slow-slow data is standard with most of the Icom DStar gear.

   Adrian F. - No, and what was more dissapointing was that an editable gps sentence field waznt added as requested to Kenwood by AE5PL to allow dprs calculator gps beaconing with any d-star gateway that supported the same in Icom gear.

## 146.52 Calling Frequency

BV 190709: The problem is there may be folks monitoring on 52 that don't want to list to extended discussions.  I can see them just turning off their radio to deal with the extraneous distracting noise.   
Perhaps establishing a Tone convention, like APRS Voice Alert, would allow priority calls to be made while keeping the radio quiet for standard traffic.

## ARRL

FB 190707: If we members want to communicate - we can just post on one of the well organized group of Facebook pages. :) (It's not like there are 2 billion other folk finding it useful.)

FB 190707: New or upgraded licences should get a free 1 year digital membership. High school and younger students should get a greatly reduced membership rate. Us seniors too. (First time I've been able to say that.)
Hopefully the goal I saw last year of a mere 5% membership decrease has been revised. That's inexcusable in this era of techy awesomeness.
